Once upon a time, there was an age of peace. The world, rocked by many wars and revolutions, had seen cities crumble and regimes fall, so this peace was a welcome change. The only real threats they now faced were the numerous powerful beasts that hunted beyond city walls, which fortunately kept adventurers employed.


It was a time for technology and innovation, a new sort of competition where one race in particular seemed to shine. The Sylvans, a race once hated for their supernatural and unique magic, became revered after sharing their abilities with the world. They created Warp Gates and navigational devices, utilizing their innate talents and spatial distorting properties. Suddenly, everywhere wasn't quite as far as it used to be. The world could be traversed in seconds, which thoroughly discouraged any wars before they could begin. Any attack would only be seen as an excuse to justly eradicate and conquer the aggressor's kingdom, rendering the very notion absurd.

It should have been perfect, peaceful, and magical. But not everyone was happy with the way things were. A powerful elven sorceress, a queen amidst a flourishing kingdom, wanted more. She sought to gain greater power by using Sylvan abilities to create a portal, puncturing a hole through to a higher realm. She secretly sacrificed dozens of Sylvans, experimenting with their bloodied parts and pieces before finally succeeding.

The very first Fracture resembled shattered glass—an otherworldly gate made not of material or magic, but rather as if it lacked substance, a pressure applied between two worlds. In a moment, she found herself in a 2000's style rural farmland. She learned many things there, but most importantly, that they were weak. Humans, a species unknown to her world, had technology far beyond her own, yet they lacked any sort of magic, leaving them unable to protect themselves.

She returned to her kingdom, preparing an army to siege this new frontier. At first, the missions were easy; the army would enter, siege, and leave, creating two fractures in the process. These secondary fractures often led them warping to random locations within their own world. This itself wasn't an issue thanks to the Sylvan navigational devices that could swiftly guide armies to the nearest warp gates. The trouble began when explaining how armies appeared without a warp gate, not to mention the new technologies they carried.

It wasn't long before questions arose and knowledge leaked. Just like that, the age of peace was over. A new war began, not between kingdoms but between worlds. Those who refused to participate were few and far between, such was the pull of new technology and opportunity. The Sylvans were hunted once more, as each fracture required their sacrifice to exist.

Wars, however, are fought on two sides. Humanity was in panic. These fractures had been opening seemingly randomly throughout their world, unleashing armies of magical races and beasts with unnatural powers. They scrambled to study and learn everything they could, discovering two very important things: living creatures from Earth couldn't survive the transition between worlds (only around 2% were able to withstand it, often with obscene side effects), and the Sylvans were the cause of the fractures.

Armed with this information, they prioritized scientists and self-defense, algorithmically dividing the population and selecting them for their roles in society. Imprisoned Sylvans would change the tide of war once more. By purifying Sylvan blood, a certain organization found they could mutate non-magical species with DNA from other worlds, creating races capable of magic not dissimilar to the Sylvans' own. These new races (with an often human base) were capable of making the transition through worlds. Humanity had found a way to fight back, creating skirmish teams to bring back more magical resources. They created weaponry and armor from monster parts and races alike, finding new ways to mix technology and magic.

Puncturing holes through the veil between worlds had unforeseen consequences. Fractures began forming randomly, no longer requiring Sylvan sacrifices, slowly shifting the distinction between worlds.

In the current age, The world's have shattered entirely into their own minatature contained ares, fully encompassed by fracture material. Humanity has all but died out, with many area's lacking proper ingredients to sustain non magical life. With the main surviving factions being the mirrored races, and standard races. (Eldritch races have only recently been discovered, and are still not fully understood)

There will be desolate deserted areas where plants had long died out, and the world has reclaimed its natural state. These areas will be filled with various forms of wildlife, and the occasional magical beast. There will be a few areas that are still inhabited by the remnants of humanity, where refuge is found in laboratories. There will be cities in ruins, villages that have been abandoned, and monasteries built to eldritch gods.  
